# HIST-3904-Exercises
  Some of the exercises given to the class to help us develop our skills as digital researchers. I chose these exercises because, they show a good example of where my technical abilities are through a variety of interfaces and over my time doing some of the work for this course. 
 
  I would like to say that these exercises show how I grew throughout an entire semester of trial and error, trying new and exciting things or how through many hours of work, I finally became profficent at conducting digital history. I could make a false write up on all of these things and attempt to pass it off as if I had been working hard over the last couple months and putting my full ability as a student and historian into this class. I do not want to do that. One of the main themes of this course has been transparency and the idea that we can learn from our failures and I hope to show a little bit of that now. 
  
  I failed to be an active participant in this course by not attending a large portion of the classes, not doing a lot of the work associated with the exercises in the class, and not getting any real start on my project until the last minute. From all of this, I learned that, if you are having trouble with getting started in a project, delaying is the wrong thing to do. When encountered with what feels like an overwhelming amount of work the best step would be to just start and ask for help when it is needed. I should have taken advantage of the help that was being offered by the Proffessor and other students within the class. Courses and projects such as this require time, effort, and collaberation to be successful and cannot be avoided.  I should have been honest with myself and those that were involved about what I was doing and how I could realistically move forward. 
  
  As far as the Exercises shown in this repository, they are done to the ability that I have through attempting them by myself and without much time available to me. I could have done better if I had been doing them consistently throughout the course and as part of the class who seemed to be more than willing to assist eachother and work as a group to come out with the best results. I found that I had the most trouble with module 3 as the TEI language was very new to me as is most computerey work. Although Inkscape and Voyant are not tools I had used much either, the intructions and the ease of the tools themselves amde my attempts much more successful, in my opinion. I honestly wish there was more of a progression in how I ddeveloped over the course howeverit is as it is. 
